[Music]
you have your finger on something that I
am haunted by which is that people are
lost they're scared in life they've got
a negative voice running on repeat when
they get into self-help they make no
lasting changes whatsoever what's the
answer to that and how does the subtle
art of not giving a [__] play into all
this starting with the easy questions I
see yeah I hope not
well I you know a question that I've
been I've been in this industry for 15
years now and I've written thousands of
pages worth of content I've recorded
tons of videos done hundreds and
hundreds of interviews like this
so most of my careers I've existed in
the theory and I've done I did a little
bit of coaching early in my career but
I've kind of hit this point where you
know you can only talk about anxiety so
many times before you just start
repeating yourself and and so I've kind
of come back to this question of
implementation like why do people read
12 books and then not change any of
their behaviors why do we watch a you
know 20 YouTube videos and understand
exactly what the perfect morning routine
should be and then we sleep till 9 30.
you know uh
so I I've been trying to think of
clearly like whatever the information is
not the problem there's something about
the format that nobody has solved yet
um
I think really the only intervention
that kind of consistently achieves
behavioral change is
a good therapist over many years like
that has a high hit rate pretty much
everything else like you're batting 10
20 what is it about therapy you think
that works I think it's the the
intensity and consistency of it
and I also just think it's you know
you're paying 100 bucks a session
there's only so many weeks you can show
up and have the therapist basically tell
you the same thing until you're like
okay I should probably go do that where
it's like you don't have a book you're
people aren't reading the same book week
after week they're not watching the same
video week after week
or I I think maybe just having somebody
in the room like telling it to them has
more more impact in some way so to back
up a little bit the problem with therapy
is it's not scalable it's expensive it's
it there's limit limited accessibility
to uh to a large percentage of the
population
um it there's
a bunch of credentials you got to go to
school for years to become an accredited
therapist so I've I've been thinking
about like what is a way
how do we solve the implementation
problem how do we make it easier for
people to implement behavioral change
whether it's through apps whether it's
through uh
you know video courses you know whatever
that's kind of like become the problem
I'm asking myself I'm like zeroing in on
at this stage of my career how did you
change so you've obviously had a pretty
dramatic change for anybody that's read
your book or seen the Now movie yeah
very impressive man I gotta tell you
thank you uh how did you change was it
therapy
therapy was helpful so I did therapy in
my 20s for a few years and that was
helpful
I think one thing that I'm particularly
good at
is I'm very good at like changing my
mind about things
uh like
I don't get too attached to
aspects of my identity like it doesn't
I don't feel
committed to like oh this is how people
see me so I need to behave that way how
the hell did you pull that off I don't
know I'm I'm like
we could we could dig into that probably
a combination of Nature and nurture but
um
I think I've been good throughout my
life of like being willing to look at
myself and be like whoa maybe I'm not an
author maybe I just like had a good book
um let me go through this other thing
now
um are you doing that
is that a real conversation yeah
interesting
um given how many books you sold I think
people are going to be shocked to hear
that yeah million approaching
20 million it's crazy if you add them
all up yeah yeah that seems like a fair
thing to do
um
yeah it's I'm very proud of that and
it's a very obviously a very important
part of my life but
I don't necessarily see that as who I am
right what do you see as who you are or
do you avoid that kind of statement I
avoid that statement interesting so that
you don't get trapped yes and then
I like to think of it as like I'm an
author right now and if that one day
it stops being useful being an author I
will stop being an author right I think
there's other identities or labels that
I I have adopted a little bit more
permanently like I'm a husband or I'm a
friend or I'm a son
um like those aren't those are labels
that I don't see myself relinquishing
anytime soon but
I think if I have a talent personally I
think it's just the ability to kind of
like swap labels within my identity and
I think
being able to observe myself do that is
what kind of allowed me to write well
about these topics
um
that's really fascinating to me because
I so I think a lot about how do you get
people to actually make the change yeah
and at first I'm just telling people
okay here's what you do uh there's this
thing I think one of the big things is
people have it's it's twofold they have
an inability to build desire so they
just don't want anything in their life
not badly enough to keep pushing through
and then they don't know how to use
identity statements to hold themselves
accountable yeah and as I would teach
people okay let me I'm just going to
walk you through what I do I can't swear
that it's going to work but this is what
I actually did and so I know it worked
at least once yeah and the more I would
tell people and tell people and tell
people and see many people tread water
and not be able to make that progress I
was like am I just hyper malleable yeah
in that is this my superpower is there
something in the way to your point about
is I don't know if it's nature nurture a
combination whatever but I find it very
easy to point myself at something new
run a process yep and that process thing
and anchors me emotionally so for
instance when I was at Quest everybody
just assumed I was going to be doing the
nutrition thing for the rest of my life
yeah and I was like no I've always
wanted to do the film thing but even
when I went from film to then focusing
on nutrition or entrepreneurship is is
the more honest answer
that was pretty easy for me to do and
say okay I'm gonna tie something I care
deeply about to this thing because it
needs to be something bigger than myself
I need to have real sense of like I'm
contributing to the group to make this
stick but then when I did it again as I
left Quest into impact Theory and was
like okay this is now a process I know
how to run this I have to take people
that I care about deeply associate them
with the mission of building this thing
and then I'll be able to push through
the difficulties
so you're not tapping out and just
saying well I'm a hyper responder
everybody else can you know go deal with
it for themselves you're trying to crack
that nut what do you what do you think
is the thread that you're going to pull
on it's a combination of a couple things
one and one part of that you you alluded
to which is the desire you know I do
think there are ways to
manipulate our level of Desire or our
level of motivation I guess kind of the
emotional aspect of like
feeling fired up about something I think
most people it's not hard for them to
get fired up about something
for a few days it's once you get to like
week two that most people tap out and so
I think there's a lot of
I think people underestimate how
influenced we are by our surroundings
and our environment
um and I think they're to make those
some of those early changes sustainable
you have to do a lot of interventions
Within
your environment whether that is you
know throwing all the junk food out of
your fridge
um
making it easier to get out of bed in
the morning putting the alarm clock on
the other side of the room or uh
surrounding yourself with the right
people to that will help that will make
it easier to implement the desired
change right like fundamentally we are
most of our psychology is driven most of
our happiness is driven by our
relationships and where
the reasons that we are receiving social
validation and so if you are receiving
social validation from people for bad
behaviors
then one of the most effective things
you can do is surround yourself with
people who are going to validate you for
better behaviors
um like one thing I've been saying a lot
that's been resonating with people is
that you know there's all this talk
about like
I wish I didn't care what people think
or I wish I didn't didn't need
validation from others but that's
impossible like we're social creatures
we're always going to need validation
instead of trying to not be validated by
others we should be validated by better
people and for better reasons so if the
validation that you find yourself
seeking from others is hurting you
then you need to find people that that
social validation is going to help you
you know and the most banal cliche
example is like joining a gym right like
join join go join a CrossFit class or
something it's like what CrossFit has
done that is so genius is that they have
found a way to leverage social
validation in the exercise so it's like
people who have hated exercise their
entire life suddenly they're in an
environment where a bunch of really nice
encouraging people are rewarding them
for doing hard things and
I think that is
probably at like the base level like the
most fundamental way to kind of rewire
what you care about or what you want in
your life is to align yourself with
social groups that are going to reward
you for wanting those things
dude I think that's so often missed so I
you still do get asked by parents a lot
uh you know my kids are really headed
down the wrong path how do I get them to
turn around and I mean sometimes it's
you know really heavy [__] drugs
whatever
and setting aside like the addiction
aspect for a second my answer is always
there's only one path I know of that is
as close to guaranteed to work as
humanly possible and that is to kidnap
them take them to a deserted island full
of people that they want to earn the
respect of yeah and if you drop them
into a group where they can't escape
because it's going to suck and they're
not gonna have anywhere to turn other
than these people to get their
validation to get their respect and if
they want their respect no matter how
crazy or difficult the thing is that
they ask them to do they will do it yep
and that like just knowing what I know
about human psychology and the way that
the human animal moves as a social
creature like they are going to embed
themselves in that group and adhere to
the Norms of that group they have to be
very thoughtful about what group you
embed them in because they probably
ended up doing the drugs or whatever
because they got embedded in a group of
people that were doing dumb [__] and
they wanted their respect yeah and it
goes back to
um the song I took a pill in Ibiza you
know so Avicii would think I was cool
it's like we do a lot of dumb things so
that people will think that we're cool
but to your point you can flip that
around but it becomes hard to Cobble
those people together yeah now one thing
that was really useful for me was books
so treating books as if they were those
friends so I know you've heard the quote
you're the average of The Five People
You spend the most time with I think
you're the average of the five people
and ideas you spend the most time with
so
way better if you can get around a peer
group that will reinforce would be a
hundred times more impactful but what do
you think about the ability for books to
give you the ideas that you can anchor
yourself around yeah I think
look ideas are necessary but they're not
sufficient it's my buddy Derek sivers
has this great quote where he says like
if intellectually understanding
something was enough we would all be
billionaires with six packs and it's
clearly it's not you know so you need
the ideas but the ideas only get you
like halfway there and
and I think with the internet
ideas have been proliferating you know
it used to be a lot of these ideas that
you and I are discussing right now you
20 years ago you had to be a professor
at in a psychology department doing
research to know these things or you had
to pay a lot of money for a very
expensive seminar to learn these things
these days it's with social media and
everything like these ideas are
everywhere they're they're extremely
cheap and almost free so it's like
anybody who has any intellectual
interest is
going to collect and consume a lot of
very good ideas pretty quickly
um I think the the power that hasn't
been tapped into yet is using the
internet
is solving solving the implementation
side which means solving the validation
side you know and using the internet to
kind of do what you were just describing
of like
finding communities finding that desert
island group of like okay these are my
people
were together for this explicit reason
we want to improve ourselves in this way
we come from similar backgrounds maybe
have similar traumas or issues
um
you know how do we organize that how do
we
how do we get people into the in in how
do we leverage the social pressure of
the internet in a positive way instead
of the negative way which is
how it's mostly been used up until now
that's kind of like
where my brain is all the time now that
to me is largely a function of adopting
a certain value system do you have and I
love as a Pete you're going to try to
squirm out of this
uh do you have like uh as close to a
universal
subsex it'll never be the totality but a
universal subset of values that if
people adhere to these it's going to
move their life forward I get it most
people won't be able to adhere to it but
is there like a small handful of things
you're like everybody should have these
I so I've thought of I'm not going to
scream out of this because I feel like
it okay I thought about this um
it is hard to say obviously it's hard to
say anything universally but if I had to
say
to me there's probably three Universal
principles that I think are just
effective
for the entire human species it's like
just how we're wired first one is
radical responsibility is like taking
ownership of everything that happens in
your life
uh even if it's not your fault even if
it's tragic even if it's completely
unfair and unjust
you still have to take responsibility
for your response to it and you have to
take responsibility for how you're going
to deal with that challenge or setback
uh responsibility is so important
because it empowers you psychologically
like as long as you're blaming something
around you and you might even be
completely correct that it is their
fault but as long as you're like
existing in that mind space you are
disempowering yourself from actually
doing anything to improve your situation
so guaranteed it's um
that's kind of in my opinion I call it
the prime belief but it's like nothing
else really works until people kind of
like flip that switch of like okay I
need to take responsibility for this
even though what do you say to people
that push back that say I was screwed
over like how can you even say this
it's
fault and responsibility so this is a
very popular part of the subtle art book
but fault and responsibility are two
different things we tend to associate
them uh
because it's you know if you hit me with
your car
you're at fault and so now you owe me
something
um that's how our legal system works
that's how our social systems kind of
work but so I think our natural instinct
is to think you know
well I had a screwed up childhood
because this person traumatized me
so somebody's got to come come fix it
for me right like somebody else messed
up my life so somebody else needs to
come fix it
um
and that's like again you may not be you
may be factually correct but nobody's
showing up to fix your life for you at a
certain point like you have to decide
it it doesn't matter what what's
happened I'm the only person who owns my
own future
many people might own my past but only I
own my future so I need to
explicitly take responsibility for
making sure it's a good future
um
second principle is uh
radical acceptance
so everybody's
are our natural inclination is to
seek pleasurable
experiences and emotions and avoid
unpleasurable experiences and emotions
and
I think the most psychologically healthy
thing to do is to Simply accept all
emotional experiences
regardless of whether they feel good or
feel bad
why accept you just mean don't fight
back don't resist don't avoid don't deny
don't suppress
um and there are some people that
suppress positive emotions as well
um which is
you know it's that's a whole tangent but
it does happen
um but basically you know
the the
the the pithy elevator pitch for this is
that there's there's no such thing as a
good or bad emotion there's only good
and bad responses to emotions so you can
you can respond to Joy in a very
unhealthy way in fact a lot of people
respond to Joy in a very unhealthy
really give me an example I mean you go
get shit-faced with a bunch of your
friends and you know wake up in a ditch
somewhere
um that's interesting you know a lot of
people develop when they feel good they
develop a very strong sense of
entitlement they feel they're they're
owed certain things because they're so
happy or they feel so good so that that
would be an unhealthy response to
positive emotions uh
but yeah it's it's a lot of people if
there's kind of like a template for the
average email that I get in my inbox
it's it's basically this it's a person
says you know
x y and z are happening in my life right
now
I feel really bad how do I stop feeling
bad
and my response is always the same is
you don't stop feeling bad you feel bad
and you find a way to respond well
despite feeling bad like it's
if you try to stop feeling bad not only
are you going to
distract yourself
uh and and get sucked down a bunch of
rabbit holes but you're actually
probably going to make yourself feel
worse right it's like
when you
wish you didn't feel guilty you just
feel more guilty when you
get angry at yourself for being angry
you just get even more Angry like it's
the spiral that starts happening
um so radical responsibility radical
acceptance
and uh
[__] I'm blanking on the third
um I had a video about this uh
I've been there so many times since in
interviews I have a rule never say the
number like give me three whatever
because then people are like oh [__]
those are two I think those are really
huge so yeah responsibility acceptance
um I'll throw a third one into the mix
it's what I call the only belief that
matters it's a bit tough to Wrangle this
in the as a value but I would say
progress becomes the value and then this
is the mechanism right progress
literally it that's hilarious so it was
uh I think I called it like radical
growth which is basically that's amazing
your your motivation for everything you
do should be to improve the lives of
yourself and others X and
yeah tell me why and others I think
people will get why they should work on
progress themselves which is to quote
Tony Robbins a foundational pillar to
human happiness which I really agree
with totally uh but why others
uh because helping others gives our life
meaning you know you can improve
yourself
all day every day but
what I find is that people who are very
very
absorbed and just improving their own
lot in life it starts to feel a little
bit pointless at a certain point you
know it comes back to that that's so
weird to me that's so true it is it
comes back to that fact that like we're
fundamentally social animals and so most
of
what we feel what we derive meaning and
and happiness from is our relationships
and so
people who improve themselves a lot they
they eventually kind of arrive at this
point so okay I I kind of divide
Improvement up into two there's two
categories one is the bad the okay and
one is the okay to great and I think
this is something that gets lost in our
industry a lot is that there are a lot
of people who are coming to us because
they feel bad and they just want to feel
okay and then there are a lot of people
who come to us because they feel okay
but they want to feel great and those
are two very different problems with and
in many ways they're two completely
different conversations and I think a
lot of advice that is intended for the
okay to great people is
misinterpreted by the bad the okay and
vice versa interesting and and so I
think if you are trying to go from bad
to okay
then yeah you should focus on yourself
like it's the old like put your oxygen
mask on before you put on the mask of
others
um but if you're in the okay to great
then a a very big component of that is
like okay if my life's great what's the
point if I'm not sharing that with
people if I'm not using all of the
amazing skills and tools and
um and wisdom that I've developed Within
Myself to help bring other people along
um and so I think it it It ultimately we
need to
uh you know a complete life is motivated
by both the truth is hitting your career
goals is not easy you have to be willing
to go the extra mile to stand out and do
hard things better than anybody else but
there are 10 steps I want to take you
through that will 100x your efficiency
so you can crush your goals and get back
more time into your day you'll not only
get control of your time you'll learn
how to use that momentum to take on your
next big goal to help you do this I've
created a list of the 10 most impactful
things that any High achiever needs to
dominate and you can download it for
free by clicking the link in today's
description alright my friend back to
today's episode so meaning and purpose
for sure big part of it
um
what I have found is whenever somebody's
striving to do something great there is
a moment where it gets difficult you
were saying this is I almost interrupted
you because it's so terrifying and I
think you're so right that most people
give up at about week two
and if you think about the amazing
things you've done in your life and I
think about the things I've done in my
life it's like it's not even year two
it's like you're 10 and you start to get
somewhere and the difference between the
second week and the second decade is so
terrifying
so I'm I talk to people a lot about the
success is a game of attrition most
people just quit and they quit because
they feel badly about themselves at some
point something gut checks you about are
you good enough smart enough worthy
whatever and people come up wanting
they've got the negative voice in their
head they don't have the right value
system whatever but they implode because
they've got the negative voice it's
running unchecked they don't have a way
to Anchor themselves which I would say
the thing to Anchor yourself around is
Improvement itself yep it's like you're
getting better to your point though if
you don't understand how to take a group
of people that are real to you that you
love and say okay the saying I'm gonna
do is going to be of service to that and
I just saw a YouTube short today from
Michio Kaku of all people it's really
interesting and I disagree with him so
violently and he was saying that uh we
made a mistake 50 years ago and we're
still paying the price and the mistake
is that we think of the human mind as a
computer but the problem is the human
mind has no operating system and I was
like [__] are you for real like what
are you talking about like and he said
very specifically uh that we don't have
subroutines running in our minds and I
was like what like the human mind is
shaped by Evolution and there are these
screaming subroutines that are going to
dictate your behavior and one of them is
you better serve the group yeah and
whether you want that to be true or not
like that is running from an
evolutionary standpoint you are
propelled so hard to go be of service to
people and when I say it out loud it
sounds really cheesy but I'm like you're
destined for misery if you cannot figure
out how to serve people and do something
awesome for other people
and this is going to be a weird example
but I think it will make sense so
uh I discovered anime in my 40s and I
went all in and for like 18 now I wasn't
18 months like eight months
I was watching so much it was amazing I
was getting up really early in the
morning and I was watching like an hour
or two of anime a day seven days a week
it was awesome and I learned the art
form and all of that
once I had the art form locked in I
couldn't allow myself like I couldn't
enjoy spending a bunch of time on it
even though I like it yeah because I was
like I no longer need to do that to
serve other people now I needed to
master anime as an art form because for
me to get a growth mindset out at scale
I believe I need to do it through
entertainment anime has become the
dominant form of entertainment for young
people so I was like I really need to
understand this yeah but the second I
was like oh I get the art form like all
that passion and joy that I had and
feeling like yes I'm I'm moving myself
forward I'm making progress by sitting
and watching it went away yeah and I was
like this is where most people live is
they're in that post moment where
they're doing something but they don't
know why they're doing it it's not
associated to helping people or moving
themselves forward in any way and so
their whole life is one big like
what am I doing yeah and that's where to
me and look maybe some people either
they discover it when they're really
young or they have a natural penchant
for something and so they're already
gravitating towards service that wasn't
my shtick like I had to find that and
realize why am I running out of steam
and as soon as I was like I'm not going
to be fighting for myself I'm going to
fight for somebody else then I was like
[__] I can go crazy I've got way more
endurance way more energy
but I had to learn oh this is a
conscious process of saying okay Quest
isn't going to be about money it's going
to be about saving my mom and my sister
because they're morbidly obese and I
want to help them yeah impact Theory
isn't going to be about building you
know this big thing it's going to be
about these kids that I watch just get
devoured by the inner cities and I was
like if I could sneak a growth mindset
in when they're young then I could
actually do something yeah once I made
that switch then I was like okay I can
fight forever but without that
yeah it's funny you and I were talking
we were talking about kids a little bit
before we we went live and we're both at
that age where all of our friends
either have little kids or are having
kids having second kids and it's
it's interesting so many of my friends
particularly fathers
that they had weight loss goals or work
goals or you know wanted to do more
networking or start a new business or
whatever and they had put it off for
years and all of a sudden that kid shows
up and it's like a switch goes off and
then they actually develop they actually
make a bunch of those changes and I
think it's just it's another example
what you're talking about is suddenly
that reason shows up and it's like oh
I you know I couldn't lose weight for
myself but I don't want to be you know I
want to be able to play with my kid I
don't want to be obese and you know
running out of energy when my kid is
running around so I better lose some
weight and it's like suddenly they do
um
I want to come back to you really quick
though the
the word and you know uh
we said
we should all everything should be
motivated by improving lives of
ourselves and others I think the and is
important because what I find is that
generally
people are very people are naturally
very good at one or the other but not
both so there are a lot of people who
are naturally very good at helping
others and focusing on others and
worrying about others and taking care of
others but they're bad at taking care of
themselves and they neglect themselves
they sacrifice themselves too much and
then there are a lot of people who are
very good at taking care of themselves
or focusing on themselves but they don't
they're bad at focusing on others or
helping others and I think
developing being able to bridge those
two things and like
Square what feels contradictory at times
where it's like
you're taking care of yourself and
you're taking care of the group
and you're taking care of your loved
ones like all at the same time you're
finding the win-win-win in each
situation
um I think that is the rare skill that
that we should all be aiming for
um
but it takes us it takes everybody a
long time to get there
yes and usually after a lot of years of
suffering what's going to be really
interesting in a modern context is birth
rates decline just precipitously and
more and more people aren't having kids
I think about this a lot so I've
consciously decided not to have kids and
I'm very aware of the fact that people
come to me for advice and despite your
protestations about not going on stage
and telling people do this this is
exactly what I do and I feel supremely
confident uh foolishly perhaps but the
one thing that I'm really careful about
is you need to be real thoughtful if
you're gonna not have kids yeah and I
think that the default answer for people
should be to have kids and it's a little
bit like that uh the fence thing I
forget what it's called but it's like if
you are wandering through a space and
you come upon a fence your default
assumption should not be I don't know
why it's there so let's tear it down
yeah you'd be like I need to figure out
why it's there before I tear it down
yeah and that's how I feel about not
having kids is I literally just
yesterday so we have the same impact
Theory University
and a person asked me a question and I
was I was startled by the question and
it was like I uh sit in bed and I stare
at the ceiling I don't want anything I
can't even work up uh the outrage when
somebody wrongs me I just I don't care
and I was like whoa yeah so I was like
hey let me ask what may sound like a
random question do you have kids they're
like No And I was like I am not
surprised so I was like I don't know
your age I don't know if this is the
right advice for you but let's talk
about
having kids is Nature's Way of going I'm
going to give you meaning and purpose
I'm going to give you something to fight
for or something to die for something
ultimately to live for and when people
don't have that like for me it was very
conscious I was like I have to be very
careful because kids are instant meaning
and purpose yeah and I was like I've
found that through my work and it's
deeply fulfilling and I have an amazing
relationship with my wife it's deeply
fulfilling but I was like we had a
really honest conversation about it's a
very dangerous game
because we now are going to Forever have
to find our meaning and purpose in
something other than the sort of
pre-package like here you go and so when
I was answering this person's question I
was like okay you have to evaluate your
own life I said I honestly feel nervous
saying the following but I actually
believe that it's true for enough people
that this is worse thing out loud which
is you might want to consider having
kids yeah I find somebody that you love
build a strong relationship first I'm
old-fashioned like that but like do that
have kids you may be startled to your
example of how all of a sudden getting
out of bed is easy because you're
thinking about somebody else
yeah and I think people ignore that to
their own peril
yeah I I think it's
we're
we've developed a culture which this is
one of those things that in many ways
it's great
but there's
some negative side effects that I don't
think have completely sunk in but like
we've developed a culture where
it is
mainstream and widely okay to
think about your own Mental Health First
to think about your own priorities you
think about your own happiness and
figure out what kind of life you want to
make and obviously that's a great thing
in a vacuum but to your point the
there's a there's kind of a hidden cost
to that which is once you're given the
freedom and the opportunity to think
very deeply about your right who you're
going to be and how are you going to be
happy and how are you going to find
meaning in the world
um
you
suddenly nothing is given to you
suddenly you have to kind of conjure it
out of thin air like the way I describe
this in subtle art was like
you know a hundred years ago
life was objectively worse like it
sucked like you're probably a
subsistence farmer somewhere you're
probably in a war or a famine or
depression but
when you're living but a hundred years
ago it was always very very clear
what your purpose was what the goal was
what the meaning in your life was it was
to survive you know don't get shot don't
get killed and grow enough food to
feed yourself and your family and so
everybody woke up every day knowing
exactly what they were going to do that
day knowing exactly what had to be done
or or else the consequence was
potentially deaf and so I think a lot of
these existential questions that we
wrestle with in the 21st century of like
who am I why am I here what am I
supposed to be doing like these are
luxuries these are very very first world
problems and
in in many ways we've we've traded
physical struggle for psychological
struggle like that is the hidden cost of
our Comforts and freedom that we've
earned for ourselves over the past five
six Generations
so fascinating this is a very weird time
of ah God I think it was you that said
it it's like when you've been just a
wash in abundance for ever it there's a
real Distortion that happens are you
watching The Last of Us
I've played the games so I'm waiting
okay but you know you know the story
yeah it it's very fascinating to watch
the story of people who go from the
normal life that we all know to you are
one rabbit kill or deer kill away from
dying and like what that does and how it
is clarifying but also breaks down trust
because now there's so much competition
between people for like very scarce
resources but it's it's really
clarifying and when I think about where
Society is going certainly here in much
of the West definitely in the U.S it's
like it gets to be a very precarious
tightrope when you don't have to think
about other people you can build a life
where you're staying at home and you're
supposedly just a wash and opulence and
everything is great and easy but you
have this profound sense of unease and
something isn't right and people don't
really have a sense of how to Cobble
that together you've mentioned it a
couple times already in this interview
but I want to put a point on you say
that people's I think you said happiness
is most tied to their relationships yeah
how do we do relationships well is it a
bunch of people are there certain like
you need romance you need friendship
whatever just just more easy questions I
see I like the softballs I like
softballs come on
um
I definitely don't think the answer is
quantity and I think that
well I mean actually we have a lot of
research showing that the answer to to
the relationship question is not
quantity like in fact it seems that
there's a thing called the Dunbar number
which shows that you know we actually
seem
we struggle quite a bit to empathize
Beyond a certain amount of people and in
terms of close friendships we seem to
max out around five or six
um
so it's definitely quality over quantity
and and I think not only is it quality
over quantity but quantity can actually
distract from quality I just moved here
from New York we were talking about that
earlier one of the the constant
struggles in New York City is that
there's always so much going on and
there's so many people that you can meet
and hang out with that
nobody actually ends up being satisfied
with their social lives like it ends up
being this kind of constant churn of
friends and acquaintances and you might
meet somebody and you really like them
and you're like man we should hang out
we should get together and eight months
will go by before you see them again
just because your both of your schedules
are so hectic and crazy and there's so
much other stuff going on so I I do
think
quantity distracts from the Quality
quality is what matters and I think one
when you talk about quality
there's
there's a few things going on one is
there there needs to be some sort of
alignment in terms of values and world
view so like you need to have something
in common you need to care about the
same thing something that need to be
about it doesn't need to be everything
but there need there needs to be
something that
you both believe that you both care
about this is true for friendships and
romantic relationships
um there needs to be alignment somewhere
on like a deep value
um
at the same time it seems to be
beneficial if there's also a little bit
of uh not just difference but like
opposites you know so
introverts tend to play really well with
extroverts and vice versa you know the
extrovert needs somebody to listen to
all their [__] and the introvert
needs needs somebody to listen to all
day so
um you know so it works out well
um so there are certain personality
traits that tend to complement each
other well and I think that's what we
describe as chemistry you know when you
sit with somebody and it's just like it
just works
it's because you have like complementary
personality traits that kind of what are
the things you think people need to
agree on
um so actually so my friend near I all
had this great thing uh and he's not a
relationships guy he's just a friend he
actually I don't know if he's got him on
the show yeah he's been on your show so
he's uh his whole thing is about
attention and distraction
um but I I was hanging out with him once
and and his theory was he said um
so there's five things I think
let's see I'm doing it again
dangerous he's got a handful of things I
think I I think I can get it I think I
can get it um so uh religion
so okay cleanliness
religion politics kids and
uh
uh oh [__]
I think gold I'll say like life goals
it's probably something else but we'll
say life goes yeah I did not see that
one coming so he said he said
if you get all five
you're probably bored because you agree
on everything
um
if you get four you're that's probably
like the optimal spot three you're okay
but you're probably fighting
a decent amount and he said lesson three
it's like it's not gonna work because
you just don't align on enough things
um so I think it's
the things that
people need to really align align on is
like lifestyle habits which I guess is
cleanliness okay that yeah that makes
sense that's the one thing my wife and I
fight about so we have four out of the
five yeah me and my wife too yeah
um but like kids politics religion like
you know you probably need to be aligned
on more of those things than not um
because it's yeah I mean you can there
are couples that disagree politically
disagree you know different religions
but it's like there needs to be enough
overlap that like it kind of keeps them
binded together
um
so we've got shared values we've got
complementary but different
personalities
um and then the crazy thing is so if you
look at like research on friendships in
particular
uh I've been really interested in this
because we're both at that age where I
think it's
it gets hard to make friends because
everybody's so busy all the time
um
if you look at the research on
friendship like the number one fact you
know they talk about all these things
similar values
um you know similar Hobbies or behaviors
or interests or whatever the but the the
number one factor that that never gets
talked about is simply exposure it's
like you tend to become friends with or
develop relationships with people you
see all the time and that I think that's
just such an underrated thing and this
kind of comes back to the the
environment piece of like putting
yourself in an environment around people
that you want
to validate you in a positive way or who
you want to be more like
um
you know there's a certain amount of
value just seen the same type of people
day after day after day like it there's
like an unconscious bond that starts
forming whether you want it to or not
so how do people go about constructing
that is it just whoever you work with
that's going to be that or well I I
think we you know we run into this
a similar Paradox of choice especially
these days with remote work and
everything right like if everybody's
working from home then now you now you
get even more choice in terms of like
who you spend time with but you also
default to isolation yep which is
something I definitely worry about we
when we so we did about 18 months where
no one came in the office we actually
had employees start saying hey can we
come back now yeah because they were
feeling so isolated now it wasn't
everybody there are still people you
know three years later that are like no
no I don't want to come back yet so it's
interesting yeah
um isolation I think
forcing yourself to get out it's funny
because you know as somebody who's been
self-employed his whole career
a lot of the problems that
that I faced in my 20s
it's interesting like it's interesting
to see the world going through it which
is like I had to learn how to force
myself out of the house because it's
what you discover is that
when you work
in the same room that you sleep and you
watch TV and you like
do whatever your interests are and you
work out like
it becomes very hard to leave that room
at a certain point and so you have to
find you've like invent reasons to make
you leave
um
I I guess I you know my answer to your
question is just I I think I'm bullish
on
communities over the next 10 20 years
like I just think
without with as you pointed out with
fewer kids with less religion and with
more remote work you know like that
those three things are probably the
biggest reasons that people
physically go to the same place over and
over and over again
and so I think we're just out of
psychological need we're gonna have to
reinvent that in some way
just around other activities or
behaviors you know the gym class the
CrossFit class is a perfect example like
what does that look like in all these
other verticals you know like book clubs
um
you know
pickleball like everybody's playing
pickleball and honestly I think it's
hearing about that it's mostly just
because
we want to go see the same five people
like you need to go see the same five
people over and over and over again like
that's just part of being kind of a
psychologically stable person yeah it's
interesting the idea that the most
severe form of punishment you can put a
human through is isolation yeah making
them be by themselves that's really
weird
as somebody who likes to be alone but
always in my control and all that so I
get that it's a very artificial way but
I just I so enjoy being by myself I'm
startled I accept the truth of it trust
me this is not me going oh it wouldn't
happen to me yeah but I'm startled that
that really is the most brutal form of
punishment that you can put a human
through it's very strange you just gotta
imagine no internet yeah yeah no no
internet would be rough that is for sure
yeah but the the fact that the human
mind will begin to hallucinate yeah if
it isn't seeing other people I'm sorry
what yeah like that's so that your brain
has such a hunger to have
people to interact with that it will
make them up in order to scratch that
itch that's really that's surreal to me
yeah I mean it it's
it puts it on the same level as like
food or yeah breathing no for sure but
we don't consider it the same way
it's interesting it really hits me as
okay this is super super important Sex
Drive is another one that like people
are very I think are quick to not think
about how fundamental a drive that is
yeah
um you know for guys it's it's harder to
forget because you realize oh I don't
control my erection yeah and when you
realize whoa whoa like nature put this
out of my conscious reach like that is
such a deeply embedded drive that it's
like there is Michio Kaku there is a
subroutine running in my brain that's
like you're going to want what I the you
know Evolution tell you you're going to
want yeah that's crazy and so when
you've got that kind of thing like
pushing you to move forward
if people don't take that time to
understand it recognize how important it
is and this is something that my wife
and I tell people in relationships a lot
like if you want a long-lasting
relationship you've got to keep having
sex yeah because so often especially
people that have kids you have Bed Death
yeah and so you become basically like
roommates and with the amount that I
work like that's always the danger for
me that I will just get so stressed and
there's so much going on and I'm sure
it's just driving my testosterone down I
just don't feel like it yeah and so
there have been times where Lisa and I
have had to be like okay like this is a
real thing like we have to be committed
to this and we can't let I mean look
there's going to be times where you're
sick or whatever but like we try not to
let a week go by where we don't have sex
ideally more than once yeah so it's like
and look that's me speaking in my 40s
you've been very generous to put me at
your age to this whole episode which is
not true but like that you know you
really really have to be thoughtful yeah
I want to go back to romantic love
before we start enrolling you said that
you were a convert because I said I'm a
huge believer in love and marriage and
you said I'm a convert
um one what made you think in the
beginning not for me and then what
changed your mind I so
my emotional background is avoid an
attachment and basically a commitment
foam so I struggled quite a bit in
romantic relationships to maintain
romantic relationships because you were
afraid they would reject you and so you
reject them first
uh yeah I mean that that's fundamentally
like the kind of the way and avoidant
attachment works is it's uh a deep
insecurity of being hurt and so
you
you protect yourself by finding reasons
to push people away
[Music]
um
and most of those reasons are going to
be irrational or
imagined
um so that that was most of my early
relationships
um when did you become consciously aware
of that I think
probably towards the end of my
relationship with my college girlfriend
um
I I developed an awareness you know with
my first serious girlfriend
I was just a bad boyfriend and but I had
so little awareness I didn't even
realize that I was you know because we
all justify our decisions and actions
and so you know I kind of walked out of
that one thinking I
I was like Rosy and gold and she was the
terrible one and you know as an adult I
look back I'm like no I was an idiot but
it was with my college girlfriend that I
you know I got to like the back half of
that relationship
um it's about two and a half years and I
just realized I'm like wow I'm like
really not good to her and like I really
care about her but I'm not a good
boyfriend and
and I had to it was difficult to kind of
admit that to myself and and then I
started investigating why that was like
why why am I like responding in these
weird emotional ways and
doing shitty things to her
um
you know like just
causing drama for no reason
um and so that's I started reading a lot
about relationships and when I stumbled
across the tashman theory it was like oh
[__] yeah that's me that's that's it
right there
um and so at that point you're like I'm
maybe because of this I'm not interested
in pursuing something or um so
the thing
so the thing about an avoidant
attachment is is you have a fundamental
uh
just anxiety and fear around intimacy
and romance and
it's that manifests itself in various
ways but you know it's we
we experience the emotion first and then
we justify it later and so in my younger
years I found all sorts of reasons to
justify this you know it's just
I have a really high sex drive I'm
polyamorous I uh you know my lifestyle
is just I'm always going to be on the
road and working really hard so I'm
never gonna have time to like settle
down and commit you know it's like I
started kind of telling myself all these
stories about myself
um that made me think that I am not the
type of person who settles down with one
partner for a long period of time
uh
uh as I got older and under started to
understand a little bit more about my
baggage and
my childhood and
trauma and things like that I started to
realize that maybe some of that's not
entirely true and I and I need to work
on myself uh and then it was when I met
my wife
that I
I still had some of those narratives
going on but it was funny it was like I
was with her for one year two years
and normally
in the in the exact same spots that
historically I had kind of freaked out
and tried to get away or caused a bunch
of drama or cheated on her or whatever
I'm hitting that same like I guess
Landmark with my wife and I'm like hmm I
still have a lot of this anxiety but
like I don't want to go anywhere like I
want this is where I want to be
and I think
it forced me to kind of work through a
lot of that stuff within the
relationship with her there's desire
again this is exactly why I'm always
when somebody fails to get what they
want in life while there is a long road
to hoe I'm always like you just don't
want it badly enough to figure those
things out because in that moment if you
were like
I dig her but not as much as I want to
go be free or go get laid or whatever
and this is this is where I think a lot
of people fall down certainly guys is
the thrill of the hunt the thrill of
convincing someone that
um you know maybe a week ago you didn't
even know to sleep with you is really
intoxicating yep and to pretend that
that isn't like a drug-like thing is
what's going to get you in trouble
because it is so different to pursue
that versus pursuing a long-term
committed relationship this is one thing
I always thought okay I have I have set
myself up well for a long-term
relationship because I've thought about
the nature of relationships since I was
a teenager and so like what phases do
they move through neurochemically and so
like early love is very different than
you've been married for five years and
you know those things shift and change
and so it becomes about understanding
how they're going to change and having a
meta desire that's over that so
for me the meta desire that overrides
everything in my marriage is I want to
see what a life looks like when you
share it with somebody yes and that the
good the bad the ups and downs but that
idea really speaks to me and so even
though I really enjoyed the early years
where it was there was a sexual Freedom
if you will if I could be with whoever I
wanted yep
um I was
I weighed it so when I decided to
propose to my wife as I was telling you
I made a pros and cons list and that was
on there like am I okay that this is the
last person I'm ever going to sleep with
yeah and running that math I was like
yeah like I recognize it as a sacrifice
I'm not pretending that I'm not giving
something up because I very much am but
the thing that I get this idea of being
able to share my life with her and grow
with her and we were in her she was 21
when we met I was only 24. so it was
like
you know we were pretty pretty early so
it was like I went I was broke at the
time so I was like there's no like oh
I've already made it now I'm finding
somebody so I was like wow we're really
gonna like do this together and dream
together and build together and all of
that stuff and so it was like talking
about okay
things are going to change like this I
remember as we were in the grips of the
cocaine-like effects of that when you
first realize you're in love yeah which
is insane I was like this feeling will
change this is going to turn into
something else and we have to be ready
for that we have to communicate through
that we have to navigate through that
but if we handle it well I have a
feeling there's something on the other
side of this that's really going to be
that's better than cocaine yeah truly
which nobody tells you like it this is
the other thing I just think
well first of all you alluded to
something that was very very major for
me and I think this is true for a lot of
men in particular is I think men tend to
overestimate the significance of the
hunt the chase the sexual Conquest I do
think you know obviously there's
it is very enjoyable and it's fun and
it's almost like a sport
um and I think once I re but I think a
lot of men over because they receive so
much Social validation and because they
have scripts running that tell them that
that's what makes them
High status or important or desirable
um
they tend to put way more meaning into
it than there actually is you know an
epiphany for me and I was definitely one
of those guys so an epiphany for me was
when I realized exactly what you were
just saying is that basically
The Hunt is
it's a glorified hobby like it's just
it's almost a sport and it's
the same way like you can love
basketball and like make it the center
of your life but it's still just
basketball like it's never going to be
more than just basketball you know and
it's the same thing with dating a bunch
of people and hooking up with a bunch of
hot girls and and getting all that
validation from that and
meanwhile there is a certain level of
depth of meaning when you have shared a
decade with somebody
and you
've been through the best times and the
worst times with that person you've had
Joy with that person you've had pain and
fear with that person
and you're still with them and they've
watched you grow through that and you've
watched them grow through that like that
is so rare and special and it is
you can't replicate that in any other
way
and
once that clicked for me that like wait
a second this thing that I've been
spending
all these years focusing so much on was
oversold to me it was like over hyped
and this thing that most people complain
about which is marriage is totally
undersold to me like the joy and the
meaning and the impact of like
you know seeing my wife accomplish
something in her business that she's
been working three years towards and you
know I and watching her stress through
it and giving her support and giving her
advice like watching her succeed in that
moment like it's so much more impactful
and meaningful than like the best
one-night stand I ever had like it's not
even on the same you know you're like
you're not even in the same territory
when you compare those two things
I you know I
that Revelation was like so profound for
me uh
and and I'm a little bitter that like
that message isn't
like I started wondering I'm like where
was this message when I was 20 right
like because when I was 20 the message
was no dude you need to bang as many
girls as possible and never settle down
and you know because that's like what a
high status alpha male does or you know
whatever the the thing was back then and
uh
and that was fun for a couple years but
like it doesn't serve you well long term
uh and so I have been I'm glad that I
I'm I'm glad to hear you're you're on
the same page it's I have intentionally
kind of been an advocate for classical
monogamy and marriage because I think it
is
in this day and age it is underrated
yeah long-term relationships for sure
it's the most gratifying thing I've ever
done and I say that as somebody who's
had the kind of worldly success that
most people you know fight and die for
and I'm just telling you like nothing
even comes close yep and no matter how
successful you are at least in my
experience it's not like the negative
voice goes away it's not like oh it's
just up and to the right like it's still
that Jagged you know Cliff of like whoa
It's Working no nothing's working you
know is it going to last is it is this
forever like there's so much like
whipsawing when you're trying to matter
obviously I could have gone off and
retired and just been wealthy and spent
my money but I I played that thought out
and it was very obvious to me
that I would not be able to be happy
yeah fulfilled that's the right word I
wouldn't be able to be fulfilled and so
I was going to have to go back into
living a full and robust life serving
myself and other people
um but in all of that which is amazing
and it's important and people need to do
it but in all of that nothing has given
me
what my wife and it's it's a Gestalt of
things because it's the moment where she
looks at me like I'm powerful and that
it makes me feel so good the moments
where I am completely broken in front of
her and she's there and it's like I'm
here I'm I don't think less of you for
this moment in fact if anything I'm
honored to be needed and that you show
me this and
you put all of that together it's
[__] unreal to this day
if she walks into a room and I'm not
expecting her like oh like I get I won't
say I don't get butterflies but it's
like I'm so happy to see her that and
that's we're in the same house all the
time yeah like we basically never leave
the house yeah but if she walks into a
room and I'm not expecting her it just
makes me happy yeah you can reboot your
life your health even your career
anything you want all you need is
discipline I can teach you the tactics
that I learned while growing a billion
dollar business that will allow you to
see your goals through whether you want
better health stronger relationships
more successful career any of that is
possible with the mindset and business
programs in Impact Theory University
join the thousands of students who have
already accomplished amazing things tap
now for a free trial and get started
today
you know you you mentioned like the the
butterflies and the cocaine-like effect
of that road that early romance where
it's just very very intense emotions
um
it does go away but the thing
if it is a healthy solid relationship
the thing that kind of it segues into is
almost like a calm ever-present
satisfaction and that is in many ways so
much better you know like it's it's
it's not as exciting
it doesn't get your adrenaline going
you're not having sex three times a day
anymore but that's fine
it but it there's just this like peace
you know it's like she comes down for
breakfast and you're just like huh like
little smile pops on your face and like
it just feels good all the time
um and and it's
yeah I can't I can't recommend it enough
like there's and it comes back to right
like the subroutines thing
um like there's a reason why marriage
exists in every culture across human
history
yeah sure humans were not monogamy isn't
not everybody's monogamous all the time
there's
plenty of cultures that you know people
have sex with other people or maybe
people stray for a little bit but
parabonding which is settling down with
one partner for a long period of time
that is pretty Universal to to The Human
Experience and
um
and I don't I don't think that's an
accident what do you think about the
modern mating crisis probably the right
way to sum it up like what the hell is
going on now
and how do we reverse the trends
I think there's two
issues happening simultaneously
one is just a classic Paradox of choice
you know when you've got an app that you
know if I can set up five dates
you know in the next hour
um why why
it removes the stakes and so if a date
doesn't go well it's kind of like
whatever
um I'll just find somebody else
I think there there needs to be a little
bit
you need to feel like you're losing
something if if the date doesn't go well
to like kind of
motivate you to to open up and put in
the effort to like see if there's a
connection there so I think that's part
of it I think the other part of it is
that I think generally people don't
you can't really settle into a
a
healthy relationship well hold on let me
it's harder to settle into a healthy
relationship until you've kind of gotten
yourself figured out and I think why'd
you hesitate to say that
uh well I was originally going to say
you can't but I don't think that's true
really you think you can be
dysfunctional and get into uh no no no
no I well so let me Define figures
yourself out but you can be
dysfunctional and
functionalize yourself within the
relationship
um that's like a high wire act but it's
incredibly hard but some people pull it
off just the same way like you know High
School sweethearts will get married and
against my recommendations yeah I don't
recommend it but some of them pull it
off uh and they end up living a very
happy healthy life
um
generally speaking so
there are large amounts of large amounts
of people will be accepted but as a
general principle I think
it is hard to settle into a long-term
committed relationship until you have
figured out your own identity a little
bit figured out what you're doing with
your own life first
uh before you can share that with
somebody else and I think
as the world gets more complex that
process of identity formation which
usually traditionally happens in like
the age 16 to 24 range that is
elongating so it's taking people longer
and longer young people longer and
longer to kind of figure out who they
are who they want to be what they're
going to do with their life and I think
most people want to figure that out
before they
figure out who they're going to be with
long term and so
the more
uh complexity is introduced to the
identity formation process
the
the harder it's going to be for people
to to commit or decide like like if I
don't know who I am or what I'm doing
with my life how am I ever gonna know if
you're right for me you know so
I I imagine it's those two things kind
of happening simultaneously
yeah going back to the five things that
nirayal was talking about one of the
things that I think people where most
people fail it's going to be one of two
things either selection which I think is
the biggest problem and I remember for a
long time I thought I'm just so good at
relationships and then one day it really
hit me oh my wife is a ninja and she
lets things roll off her back she
doesn't get wound up about stuff and so
you know all of my high flute and
tactics would not work on somebody that
was like overly reactive emotionally
unstable or whatever so it's like I was
like okay selection is a big part of
this and then values is to your earlier
point I think one of the most overlooked
things I think people need to overlap I
have always called it roughly 80 like if
you have 80 percent of your values
aligned you're gonna be good
but then understanding what your
different personality
um strengths are so
and look I'm a little skewed on this
because my wife and I work together and
you certainly do not to be high
functioning but I find that the things
that allow us to work together have
served us incredibly well in our
relationship which is that we have we're
good at very different things and so I'm
big Vision I can handle a ton of stress
I can think well through a storm of just
everything going wrong and then my wife
once it's like we know what we're doing
then she's just gonna be completely
religious she will never fool herself
it's like this is doable this is not
this is how we're going to get it done
and so you put us together and there's
no wrestling for control both of us are
able to follow the other person with the
right the that person is the right
person to lead but overall it's like
okay I'll set the strategy whether it's
for the business or for the family and
then she's like the the reality check of
what we can do and how we can do it and
once we learned to say out loud you're
good at this yeah I'm good at this I I'm
bad at this you're bad at that like once
we laid all that out we were like do we
all agree on this because if we don't
let's have that debate so that it can be
a known thing so when we get into a
situation it's like hey you're the right
person to follow you're way better at
thinking through this kind of problem
than I am cool go forth Prosper you've
got rules set up all this stuff
but
without the alignment of values without
acknowledging where we're strong where
we're weak why we work well together
without wanting each other to win and
wanting to be a team we'd never get
anywhere yeah and I find that especially
now it's interesting I wasn't head of
this this way when I brought this up but
part of the problem that I see now is
when you have a breakdown of gender
roles now it's like you you don't even
need those to be the rules but you need
roles like you need it's like absolutely
mod soccer if you've ever seen little
kids play soccer they just swarm around
the ball and everybody runs in a big
Clump whereas once you get to the
professionals it's everybody has a role
they know exactly what they do and they
do it to a t yeah and I think the same
is true in a marriage I don't care what
your roles are but make sure you know
who's doing what I I agree I and I don't
think
you shouldn't be limited to the gender
roles but you shouldn't
you shouldn't also be limited to like 50
50 everything like it's it's people
personalities excel at different things
so you find who's better at what within
the relationship and and you maximize
that I think you touched upon like
kind of the key piece of advice that I
find myself giving these days to young
people who ask about dating and
relationship stuff which is it's I think
these days it's all about filtering uh
getting really really good at screening
early on because
the the system is essentially different
it's completely different than it was
even 10 15 years ago you know back in
the old days you were limited in how
many people you could meet
so when you did meet somebody you liked
you would put in a lot of effort to make
it work and maybe Overlook some
incompatibilities or
problem areas to like you know you're
like well I don't know when I'm going to
meet another one like this one so better
make it work right so a lot of people I
think probably ended up in
subpar relationships but most people
ended up in the relationship they wanted
whereas today you just you have this
absolute glut of opportunities the
problem is sifting through it and I
think most people's approach to
uh to dating is
is Antiquated it's still held over from
the way people did it 20 years ago which
is like get to know each other don't say
anything that's too off-putting you know
don't rock the boat at all don't act
like a weirdo and I think today if you
have way more opportunities than you can
capitalize on but it's it's the
bottleneck is actually figuring out who
you're compatible with then it's
probably optimal to actually be the
weirdo yes who asks some
controversial or off-putting questions
on the first date yes maybe upsets a few
people maybe it doesn't get called back
every time because when you do find
somebody who aligns with your values
then it's like you know immediately
you're like okay this is the person that
I invest my effort into and
all those other people I don't have to
waste weeks texting with them or being
ghosted or not hearing back or whatever
like so
I I think it's the skill that needs to
be learned in the dating world is
actually getting quite confrontational
with the values conversations like what
do you believe what what are your
political views what are your religious
views do you want kids like things that
historically you are never supposed to
talk about on your first date
I think it out there we should normalize
getting it out there interesting man so
my wife and I got together in 2000 and
that was the play so I had gotten to the
point where I had broken up with
somebody that by my definition went a
little crazy and I did not enjoy that
experience and so I was like okay my
then chick I was just trying to take out
to be quite Frank uh who ends up being
my wife but I was like okay she's
legally obligated to leave the country
because she's from England she was only
going to be at the time that we went on
our first day she's only be there for
another eight weeks so I was like this
is amazing yeah uh legally obligated to
leave I don't have to worry about like
her turning into a state I've never seen
her yeah I was like oh yeah this is
wonderful and so on the date I was like
I'm going to be aggressively myself
because I have no fear of loss
whatsoever and so I was just like this
is who I am this is what I'm into and
she was like this is the weirdest date
I've ever been on in my life and as as
like a Brit who really grew up in in the
era where it was like very proper and
like you didn't talk about that kind of
stuff she was freaked out but she was
like this was awesome yeah and so she
had a great time and she was like cool
well if you're gonna be that open and
honest about you who you are like here I
am and so from the jump we were like oh
I actually know who you are you actually
know who I am like I didn't fake it I
can't believe this is true but I read
her some of my terrible poetry on the
first day and uh it was just like yeah
like this is me the weirdnesses and all
of it and I was like man when a woman
like tries to tell me that she only has
eyes for me I'm like forget it there's
no way you don't find Brad Pitt
attracted this is like Peak Fight Club
yeah and I was like I don't buy it for
one second and to be honest that makes
me insecure if you're trying to tell me
that you don't find him attractive then
I'm just like [__] like what do I have
to do like is my hair okay like but if I
know that you're like oh I find plenty
of people attractive but I I'm into you
and so I'm committed to this
relationship then I'm like okay word I
don't have to be so paranoid
and so that was how we were talking on
the first date
she was just like whoa this is like
really crazy but to your point it it
established right away maybe I'm not the
person for you maybe this isn't going to
be interesting for either of us and I
learned that I actually don't I can't
believe this is true but it is I don't
enjoy sex no matter how hot the person
is if I'm not interested in who they are
as a person even if I'm like this is a
one I stand 100 yeah but I still want to
think you're interesting yeah yeah for
sure I love I love the the attraction
thing uh I sometimes describe it as like
a lot of people's
a lot of people's conception of what
commitment is is actually just like
North Korea of your emotions right like
it just because you're married to
somebody doesn't mean that you're you
stop being human like it's like if I see
a a hot woman
she's a hot one like nothing changed
about how hot she is like she's still
hot the only thing that changes is
you're
you're still physically attracted to a
lot of people but you're consciously
choosing each and every day to be with
this person and I actually think like
once you
if you can get to a place where each
person admits that it actually makes the
commitment even more powerful because
you can actually have conversations
about
what you think is attractive who you
think is attractive
but you're still choosing to be together
and and so it becomes more meaningful
and if you're doing it right in my
opinion your significant other feels to
the core of their existence you're into
them yep you find them attractive you're
not swayed it's not like oh because I
find them attractive that in any way
shape or form I feel that that even
remotely competes is in the same league
with how I feel about you and sharing
our life and all that like [__]
forget it yes she's attractive hot
whatever but
it really it really this is going to
sound so silly when I finish the example
but it's true I felt seen and understood
by my wife we were once at a pool party
at The Roosevelt Hotel of all places
here in L.A like not like some weird
party and these two women went topless
started making out and I didn't notice
yeah and so my wife stabbing me on the
shoulder she's like yo you have to see
this and I was like I'm so in love with
you right now like the fact that you
because most the cliche goes that had I
looked my wife would be offended and she
would hit me and be upset for the rest
of the day and my wife was like making
sure I didn't miss it and I was like oh
that's so cool and so stuff like that is
is the reward that you get yeah when you
really think about okay I'm going to
share my life with this person they're
going to share their lives with me we're
going to give up a lot to be with each
other
relationships are a big compromise
they need to be worth it yeah and so
when you go out of your way to go okay
what would make being in a relationship
with this person worth it and I really
believe that one of the because nature
only has two levers to yank on Pleasure
and Pain and if we are more likely to
keep to have kids and to have kids that
live long enough to have kids by being a
united front and helping each other out
then there's going to be some pleasure
in doing that and so what Lisa and I
realized very early on is one I want you
to win I want to see good things happen
for you yeah I want you to feel and just
know the depth of my love and so I'm
going to externalize it and so I made a
rule with myself very early on that
every time I thought a compliment I
would say it even though sometimes would
be super awkward we'd be in the middle
of like hey what are we going to do this
weekend and I just noticed the way her
hair is something like damn your hair
looks really beautiful and or she'd say
something like now this happens a lot
she's really [__] good at business
and so she'll say something I'm like oh
my God like that is so smart I'm like
hold on I just need to say I I don't
want to distract us but I need to say I
am very impressed and you know and it's
just like when you do that enough enough
and you're just like I need you to
really feel at a visceral level how much
I'm into you impressed by you love you
and willing to protect you like ah on
and on and on
it really turns into something amazing
yeah but this isn't the message this
isn't what the cool kids say no no and
it's not not only is it great for her
because it makes her feel loved and seen
it's good for you too it's like buy
Express by noticing and expressing those
things you're reinforcing
the experience of appreciating those
things for her brother yeah people need
to hear please smart man says yes it's
it that is so important you know it's
I it's the little things that add up
over time and I think you know as you
what you just said about complimenting
is
is such a minor thing but like you can
never stop doing it
um
you mentioned the sex thing already
saying I love you like even even if we
have a huge fight
we make a point to tell each other that
we love each other like mid-fight and I
I think it's really important to do that
because it's when emotions get high and
you're feeling hurt and you're feeling
afraid and and you're angry like all
sorts of crazy things start going
through your head and it just it like
grounds you and it brings you back to
like
okay like it's gonna be fine we're in
this together like this is part of it
this is fights happen right
um
yeah I think it's it's there's an
accumulation of small things throughout
a relationship that
add up into something magnificent and
not easily seen and I think romance gets
so much of the attention because in
Romance it tends to be a few big things
there's grand gestures there's this
insane trip we took to Hawaii or
whatever and it was so romantic and and
those are very
obvious and memorable experiences and
and they're also very observable from
the outside you know what you're saying
about complimenting your wife like
that's not very observable
from the outside to most people but that
is that feeling that you two generate
with each other and maintain over years
and years and years like that's what
gives it power right like that's what
makes it so special yes uh so I want to
go back to something you said really
fast because I want people to hear this
so badly
uh you were pointing out that me saying
that to my wife is reinforcing in myself
yes how I feel about my wife did you
give me the chills when you said that
this is like one of my Advanced tactics
yeah the reason that I feel the way I
feel when she walks in a room is because
I've taken the time to reinforce you've
conditioned yourself yes that even now
it just gave me the chills again yeah
even now telling you the story yeah that
when my wife walks in a room I get happy
reinforces that when my wife walks in a
room I get happy yes and I I thought
early on
um every time I have the impulse to
criticize instead of doing that I'm
gonna compliment her it's always going
to be real I'm never going to say
something I don't actually mean or don't
actually feel and it doesn't mean that I
never criticize but it does mean that
when you have those little like why'd
you leave the plate there or whatever
kind of comments it's like you know what
thank you so much for making that meal
for me or you know something and that
little switch
makes such a big difference it's funny
because it kind of comes back to
well I think when a lot of people think
about like what is a good relationship
they focus more on the damage control
it's like
how do you fight well or how do you not
resent each other or
you know how do you keep the sex life
alive but it's so much of it is
doing those little positive things like
finding things to be grateful for
expressing that gratitude uh
reminding yourself of what you like in
each other complementing each other
regularly like there's there's a certain
amount of
there's a practice on that side as well
that I is probably under discussed no
doubt talk to me about fighting well
I've heard that stat and I will tell you
that I've lived it that the couples that
stay together the longest are the ones
that learn how to fight well yeah yeah
it's John gottman's got some great
research uh that he basically he took
hundreds and hundreds of married couples
put them in a room
explicitly ask them to talk about
whatever they thought about most
recently basically got them fighting in
a room and then he would watch their
behavior and kind of like coded it and
and then track those couples over
decades and then
after he saw how many of them stuck
together and how many of them divorced
he kind of like backwards engineered
like what the successful couples were
doing correctly and what was super
interesting that he found was that
successful couples don't actually
resolve a lot of their fights they don't
necessarily
they're not trying to compromise all the
time sometimes successful couples
they're just like yeah we agree to
disagree and we have this fight every
month but whatever like it's just kind
of like a thing we do
I think
it's fighting is inevitable
there are
there are some tactical things that you
can do better or worse you know it's
blame so gottman's got he calls him the
Four Horsemen of the relationship
apocalypse I think one is blame one is
stonewalling uh one is
here I go against four things the fourth
one I have for you though because I am
contempt contempt and that's like oh
yeah if you see a couple that rolls
their eyes which I think is the example
he gives if they roll their eyes at each
other it's like 98 they'll be divorced
in a year or something I mean it was
like a startling yeah result and yeah
that man you can't let that creep in
this goes back to you've got to want
your partner to win yes and one thing my
wife and I learned man this this has
really worked well for us is to speak
when fighting to speak in insecurities
so because if you're getting your back
up as my wife would say if you're really
annoyed about something the odds that
someone has triggered an insecurity of
yours borders on 100 oh yeah and so now
it's like okay if you can identify
instead of wanting to win or you're
crafting clever arguments if you can
identify okay this is making me mad
because of this and I'm feeling insecure
about that it defuses the fight so fast
one you stop arguing doing what we call
arguing at the level of the T because
the biggest fight we ever got in mind is
gonna be tired of hearing this the
biggest fight we ever gotten was over a
cup of tea yeah and I realized this
isn't about the cup of tea what is this
about and that's when I realized oh [__]
I'm insecure about this and then once I
said that and I was like this is going
to be such an Abrupt left turn because
we were arguing like screaming at each
other and I was like this is going to be
super weird but I just like to backtrack
and say the reason that I'm upset is
because I'm insecure about this and she
was like whoa and for her it was like
like The Sixth Sense and the movie just
played in reverse and she played that
whole thing back now understanding what
I was actually worried about yeah and I
was like I'm so sorry I did not realize
like I had not pulled it into my
conscious mind that that's what was
driving my behavior but now that I stop
and think about it it's that yeah and
we've carried that with us now for 20
years that's a great tactical tool of
just like labeling where the fear or the
anger is coming from on on a deep level
um
you also alluded to what I think is
probably the most important kind of
mindset thing which is
uh I think a lot of couples see the
relationship itself as a power struggle
uh that if
their partner is getting too much
attention or affection or is getting
more attention and affection than they
are then that's unfair it should be
equaled out and so they try to bring
their partner down a notch and so that
they can come up a notch and it's that
is
almost by definition a toxic like what a
toxic relationship is and it's instead
you should see it as
again a team it's like us versus the
world right and if you're winning
if you're winning right now that's good
for me right and hopefully one day I'll
be winning too and then you'll be happy
for me and vice versa
um but it's hard for a lot of people
because I think a lot of people's
romantic relationships gets it gets
intertwined with uh a lot of their
trauma and deep insecurities from from
early in their life and so it's
it's hard for them if if they are being
triggered and one of the ways that you
just described
it's very hard to see somebody who's
triggering you as on your team and so
until that perception is resolved it's
it's going to be difficult to not see
the relationship itself as a power
struggle
I mean that that one really scares me
and that's the part of the modern dating
scene that freaks me out the most is
when I hear the most the most popular
voices they certainly are not giving
good advice in my opinion but the most
popular voices they they make it sound
like dating is the thing I've never seen
or heard of before yeah because it
sounds like a battle it's adversarial
it's like me versus you uh how do I uh
keep you from taking advantage of me and
how do I maximize what I get out of you
it is so like I'm I'm on their team like
for a second I'm just gonna be like okay
there this is where young people are
right now yeah I'm with you I love you I
want to see good things for you but I'm
telling you if you go into this with an
adversarial mindset you will lose every
time oh you're screwed even and so I
really I want to have more of these
people on the show yeah it puts me it
makes me feel very fatherly in like a
weird way where I'm like no no like try
trust me like there's something
beautiful on the other side of this but
if you're coming at it like that but I
want them to lay out the hardest [__] I
want them to be like yo bro you don't
understand what it's like out here uh
with dating apps and hypergamy and all
this stuff and like guys are getting the
shaft and they just can't be taken
advantage of anymore and these girls are
all on uh uh only fans and so it's like
okay let's let's lay out all the
brutality because clearly something is
happening yeah because it really has
become dysfunctional you've got
declining sex rates you've got marriage
in the toilet fatherlessness I mean it's
just it's not an ideal bundle of things
sure so it's like okay how do we start
teasing some of these things out and
I'm just arrogant enough where I'm like
I really think even in this crazy
environment the path forward is still
the first date that you and I were
talking about yes which is okay I've had
to do a lot of work to actually be
interesting yeah I've had to do a lot of
work to understand like oh I want to
know about you I want to hear about you
and I'm going to take you to a place
that one makes you feel good makes you
feel safe is intriguing and I'm asking
you questions and maybe you haven't even
asked about yourself and not in a way so
I can get one over on you or dunk on you
or whatever by the end of it I want you
to be like damn like I never saw myself
in that way and just show people how rad
it feels when somebody is they're
sincere because you can't [__]
people yeah but you're sincerely trying
to elevate them and find interesting
things and you're not playing a game
it's like I'm gonna tell you exactly
what I think yeah well it's
so I don't necessarily think this is a
modern thing or not super modern like I
think it this strain of advice this
scene relationships is a power struggle
this message
there it's been cyclical it's like every
generation has had an iteration of it uh
you know my generation it was the pickup
artist thing in the 90s there was a
thing called the rules uh I think the
generation before that it was the Men
Are from Mars when we were from Venus
like there's just this every 10 12 years
there's a new version that pops up and
they look at whatever people's
frustrations are in the dating Market at
that time they use that as a
justification for these unhealthy
relationship behaviors why is it the
crutch why is the power struggle the
thing that lets people cope
I well so if you are a insecure person
who has been hurt deeply uh whether it
be through rejection or dysfunctional
family or whatever
I think one of the most fundamental
feelings that you have is disempowerment
you feel like you don't have control
over your own life so when somebody
shows up and starts telling you uh you
know relationships are a power game you
need to follow these tips to take
control and like win back your power
from men or from women it's a very
appealing message to that person because
that person's never experienced a
healthy relationship so they don't know
what a healthy relationship feels like
they've only experienced unhealthy
relationships which are power dynamics
and they've been on the losing end of
those power dynamics so
step one in their head is to get on the
winning side of that power Dynamic and
what usually happens is they do get on
the winning side of that power Dynamic
at some point they they use the advice
they they go get laid there they go get
a girlfriend or a boyfriend or whatever
they've exercised their power and and
taken control and they've realized that
that's not fulfilling at all it's like
okay I'm now I'm
I'm getting sex and I have a partner but
it's not enjoyable like we fight all the
time
it feels very empty and meaningless it's
very stressful it's not adding anything
to My Life
um and so they
some of them make the jump to the
healthy relationships but not all of
them do but it's so I I just think with
every generation
you know right now we have
gen Z is coming of age and
you know just like the Millennials
before them there's there's going to be
a massive amount of demand for this type
of content material and I think like the
millennials it'll run its course you
know in five years most of gen Z is
gonna try a bunch of this stuff and
realize that it didn't make them happy
it didn't really work they're going to
mature a little bit and they'll end up
back in healthy relationship land and
then the general you know five six years
after that the generation under them
when we're all in VR headsets or
whatever like there's going to be some
dude standing up saying like this is
what you got to do you got to win the
[__] back and like all this stuff and
we're just gonna go through it all over
again so
um
I do think you know there are some
interesting observations about the
dating market in terms of it is not the
struggles that men and women go through
are not symmetrical and this is
something like
I re so I started my career in dating
advice so like I've written I started
writing about this stuff like 2008 and
the asymmetry and dating problems is uh
it is part of the problem because women
only see the problem that women have
they don't see the problem that men have
and so it's very easy for women to be
like wow men have it so easy they can
just you know send dick pics to 100
women and you know whoever the one that
responds only that words yeah right it's
like the one that responds is like you
know he he'll actually go out with her
whereas men only see the men's problems
they don't see the women's problems so
they think oh wow women have it so easy
they just like post a hot picture and
they get like all these uh simps fawning
over them all the time right and they
don't understand that
like
women don't understand that men have the
issue of
to to be effective in the dating Market
as a man
you have to be willing to be rejected a
lot like that is just a fact that you're
gonna have to
make your peace with at some point and
women don't see that and what men don't
see is that if you're a woman if you're
an attractive woman you are going to get
a lot of attention from a lot of men
that you don't want attention from
and that is also something you're going
to figure out how to deal with and I
think what because the two problems on
on each side uh well I think on the
men's side they see the women's problem
and they're like that's not a problem I
would love that problem and but they
don't understand that it is actually a
problem like you
filtering effectively is it is a very
difficult problem for a lot of women and
a lot of them struggle with it quite a
bit and I think women
you know women say like man I I wish I
could message 20 guys and get responses
and you know like I wish I had more
control over who I actually got to talk
to uh but they don't they don't see the
rejection side of it they don't see just
like the constant bruising your
self-esteem takes
you know when message after message goes
on un replied to so it's um
it's not easy for anybody and it never
has been easy for anybody I think that's
another narrative that is very easy to
sell it's very easy to say like you know
back in your parents generation they
just did this and it was so easy and
it's like well no they they also
struggled with these issues it looked a
lot different it in many ways it was
less complex but that doesn't mean it
was any easier
yeah I very much agree so I had no game
with women whatsoever like none it's
probably good that I didn't find that
Community I was a little before the
pickup artist's time
um but I
luckily I knew a guy that was really
good with women uh and by then I was so
fed up because I I was the guy that
everyone tells you not to be so I would
show up on date one with literal flowers
and literal custom written poetry I once
asked a girl out in a poem like custom
written for her and she rejected it no
date like I was just like oh God but I I
could not understand why they weren't
working it was everything that I was
told women were into yeah and so it it's
the I live the nice guy things I was
never a dick about it but I was starting
to be like I don't understand why this
isn't working like I'm these are good
poems like what the [__] is the problem
and that was very surprised thankfully I
turned Inward and was like I'm doing
something wrong yeah that is very clear
to me I don't know what it is I don't
understand it but I'm doing something
wrong
so I went and asked guy I was very
successful I was just like what do you
do and he's like oh be an [__] and I
was like oh my God and it was one of I
just I was like okay I know that isn't
true I know that's not the path forward
because these are people and nobody
wants to be with an [__] so what is
it that women are drawn to that's LED
this to be the cliche and that's when I
realized oh he's willing to walk away so
what he means is
aloof isn't quite quite the right word
but it has to be that like I'm
self-assured I don't need you I might
want you but I don't need you and so it
creates a far more interesting Dynamic
and thankfully I've been so bad with
women there was this my crush in high
school
every time we would date she would break
up with me because she's like you're
different when we're together yep and I
just could not understand what she meant
now what she meant was when we were not
together I was just myself yeah we'd get
together and then I was afraid I'd lose
her so I would start being cautious and
all that and so I I was too young
couldn't make it make sense so in my
book models I actually that was the term
I used was non-neediness and as like the
root of Attraction and it's and I think
what happens is a lot of the toxic
advice you know for men the toxic advice
is basically teaching them how to be an
[__] it's basically a guy saying you
know you've been on the losing end of
the power struggle here's how to be on
the winning end of the power struggle
not realizing that it's the power
struggle itself yeah that is the problem
yes and so you know for me not neediness
is let's take the let's take the part of
being an [__] that benefits you which
is
not being needy and
and then let's like lose the [__]
part let's be respectful and not needy
how about that and to me that's like
if you can figure out how to do that
like develop the skill set to be
non-needy and respectful of people which
being respectful requires the
willingness to hear no and be rejected
and not be butt hurt about it uh
you know if you can get to that point
then you're pretty much set and go be
awesome at something yes because you're
gonna get your own self-respect this is
something I worry a lot about is that
people just aren't earning their own
respect and if you don't earn your own
respect that's gonna drip off of you and
you're gonna have a very hard time
convincing somebody else to respect you
if you haven't figured that out so being
awesome at something that you care about
ideally being awesome at something you
care about that the kind of woman you're
trying to attract would also care about
that goes a long way but even if you
can't line that up like at least be
really focused and attentive on
something that matters to you that
you're passionate about like people I
know have heard this before it's like
there's something about hearing someone
talk about what they're passionate about
even if you don't care about it even if
you don't know about it when somebody's
like really into something and they're
able to convey that it's like whoa they
light up you realize they have a life
beyond you that that they're more
integrated in some way that makes them
very attractive I know you've said that
you're attracted to women women who are
ambitious yeah which I thought was
interesting tell me more about that
I don't know where that comes from it's
just something I noticed over the years
dating a lot of women like I I was never
able to
like I dated a number of women who were
beautiful happy to be like the
traditional like cooked dinner for you
when you get home make the bed for you
you know take care of the house make my
life easy like the very very
old-fashioned like you know uh
1950s Leave it to Beaver type housewife
and I would get so bored so fast and
and there was nothing you know there's
nothing wrong with them it was just the
way they were and they were really nice
nice women but I found that I
I need a woman who is very smart and
very motivated
in in the world to do something in the
world like that's just it turns me on
more than anything and
um
and I just learned that about myself
like everybody that doesn't make it
right or wrong is just different and I
do think
one of the problems that people have you
know I do think you need to this is why
you shouldn't well it's not that you
shouldn't marry your high school
sweetheart it's just
it's not odds are against you the odds
are against you is because you do need
to be exposed to a certain number of
people and value systems to really
really know and understand like what you
mesh well with and and what what excites
you in a partner and um and so
I do for for people who have not had
enough dating experience to really have
Clarity around that I do think it's
useful I think the the bad version of
that advice is
you need the date around enough to have
enough sex with enough people that that
you like get it out of your system like
that's kind of the bad version of that
advice uh the reason that is the bad
version of that advice is because
sex is not something you get out of your
system it's it's a behavior that you
you know you condition within yourself
so if if you if you start
conditioning yourself to want to have
sex with a lot of people then you're
only going to keep wanting to have sex
with a lot of people like it doesn't
work in Reverse
um so it's it's you don't think that
people get fed up
and there is that emptiness you were
talking about before
um I don't think so I think it's it's
kind of like it's very similar to uh you
know so back in the 60s and the 70s they
they used to have this form of therapy
where like
if you had anger issues then you like
scream into a pillow and beat the crap
out of the pillow and that was supposed
to like release your anger right like
this it's this concept of like they it's
in in the research they call like the
hydraulic theory of emotion or or uh
impulse and the idea was like you just
get the anger out and then you won't be
angry when you go home well what what it
turns out that actually happens is
the more you scream into that pillow and
punch the pillow the more you're kind of
the same way you're like training
yourself when you compliment your wife
to compliment your wife more you're
training yourself to like scream and
punch pillows more and so you're
actually reinforcing the it's
interesting the emotion you're trying to
get away from practicing being angry and
so I've seen so many young men be like
well I met this woman that I'm crazy
about but you know I've only slept with
like I've only had like five sexual
partners and that doesn't seem like it's
enough I should have more than that
before I settle down with somebody so
I'm gonna I'm gonna like
put like get rid of this really great
relationship that makes me happy so I
can go [__] five Anonymous strangers
that I'm never gonna think about or care
about again and it's like somehow that
seems like a very rational decision to a
lot of young men and I say this as a as
a I used to be a young man that this
seemed very rational to
um I can on the being on the other side
of that I can tell you it's not a
rational decision and having a lot of
friends and and just knowing a lot of
men who have
made that choice like it is not the
correct choice you are actually just
reinforcing the behavior that you want
to get out of your system so
um
so that's the bad version of that advice
the good version of that advice is you
need to date enough to understand what
makes you happy
right like as you said like a lot a lot
of us have
pre-defined scripts or assumptions about
like what a good partner is things that
our parents told us things that are
church or teachers or a community told
us and we don't actually know until
we've actually gone out and dated those
people and I think what most people
experience is that
you finally date that person who in your
head was the perfect 10 and you get a
month into it and you're like this isn't
a 10. this is like a six like I'm
actually not that happy here and that's
that's a very important thing to realize
and understand about yourself yeah Lisa
and I have always used the analogy of
finding somebody that you really can jam
with and be into for a long period of
time isn't like two puzzle pieces coming
together it's like two ripped pages with
all these intricate Jagged Little edges
and finding somebody that you line up
with enough of those you're like oh this
is like really gonna fit yeah is
it's I don't think there's one person
for everybody I think that there's
probably a large number of people that
you could meet no matter where you live
you're gonna find this kind of person
but they're not on every street corner
that's for sure and so if you find it
it's like
I'm not interested in like constantly
looking for the next model and that was
one thing that I said to Lisa when we we
got together I was like you never and I
mean never have to worry about me
ditching you and upgrading to a younger
version of you I'm like that's not my
scene that's not the you know experiment
that we're running together here it's
like I want to know what it looks like
to build a life together and so we won't
even joke about the word divorce it's
just not even on the table it's not an
option we wouldn't stay if it was
Loveless or if one of us was abusive but
it's like since we know how to avoid
that yeah then it's like that's just not
even on the table and it really does
create a far more interesting Dynamic
but yeah when you've got and I God did I
ever think I need to bang more chicks no
I did not but I will say it became so
for a long time I wanted to save myself
for marriage and then I realized uh that
no longer strikes me as a good idea and
so then it was like okay I did want to
have a certain amount of experience I
didn't have a number in my head where I
was like I need to hit that number but I
was like yeah I don't want to marry the
first person I sleep with that is for
sure yeah I I do think some amount of
sexual experience is probably good to
have but
I think the way it gets framed for a lot
of young men is just it's silly
um
you know have enough sex to know what
you like and don't like and date enough
people to know what you like and don't
like and then if you find a great person
that
it feels great go with it
it's interesting how much at least for
me personality plays into everything the
loneliest I have ever been in my life
was in the middle of having sex with
somebody I didn't care about who I just
don't have any connection I couldn't
even be like and we both like basketball
like there was nothing yeah and I was
like this is really boring and it was so
ironic to me to be like I'm literally
inside your body and I feel completely
alone like so weird so yeah that was
never gonna be the path that I ended up
on yeah but yeah I think the
potential for awkwardness of one night
stands is also under discussed
especially among men and young men like
it's
there's still so much validation and
self-esteem that it's like wrapped up in
in Sex and and
for men in particular that it's also
really fun it is fun and it can be super
fun like I've had a a lot of one-night
stands that were a blast and great
memories and and I've had a lot of
one-night stands that were terrible and
super awkward and
completely disconnected and and
embarrassing and it's but you know
people don't talk about that side of it
it's like the the enjoyment of a
one-night stand
you know the hit rate is is not that
high again give me your most awkward
alumni stand
most awkward
it's been a long time man I don't know
you know there's just a number of
well it's usually alcohol is involved
first of all
um you know there there are a number of
instances of you know waking up the next
day
next to a girl that
I don't really remember anything about
her oh God
not particularly attracted to her
and then you just kind of Wonder like
why am I here but then you know I was so
young and immature at that time that I
you know the the significance of like
yeah I got laid you know kind of
outweighed all that other stuff but you
know if I'm being honest as an older as
an as an old man uh if I'm easy Chief
since you're you know much younger than
me if I'm looking back and being honest
uh
in a vacuum it was not uh
it was not an enjoyable experience uh
and it probably wasn't for her either
but
this is this is so this is back in the
the pickup artist industry this is what
I always used to say and it would make
guys really really uncomfortable which
is men come to that industry for for the
approval of women they stay for the
approval of men that's interesting
because I think a lot of the guys
like look every guy wants to have some
sexual experiences every guy wants to be
able to have a little bit more power and
options in his dating life but
The Men Who obsess over it and like
really kind of become compulsive about
it
it's it's never about the women it's
about
it's about the approval from other men
and
it's
it's it took me a long time to kind of
figure that out about myself uh and I
think
and it was an important realization uh
and I think it's it's just something
that needs to be said especially the
guys who who like that sort of content
and consume a lot of it like
you're not consuming all that content
for the women you actually said
something that I wrote down along these
lines about what people are actually
pursuing in life I think this is really
interesting this is a paraphrase but
people care about who they're with what
they're pursuing and what people think
about them that's 80 to 90 percent of
Life yeah
that's razor sharp insightful yeah it's
it's I think we like to imagine that
our happiness and meaning is tied up in
all these like very complicated
philosophical issues and at the end of
the day it's like
who are you spending time with
what are you working on
and how are you treating yourself
like are you taking care of your health
or not and if you can nail those three
things
yeah you're like 80 90 of the way there
like all all the other stuff is just
window dressing and what do you think
about from a Buddhist perspective of
detaching Letting Go not being so
obsessed around those if they're so
all-consuming and and I agree with your
earlier assessment that you're never
going to not care about what other
people think and you probably shouldn't
even try to not care but it it can
become all-consuming and very
pathological yeah so how do the
Buddhists have the right answer to that
like what what is the way to put that in
his proper place I I am not
a strict philosophical Buddhist you know
I see you had a zen teacher you are
exactly the only person I know with his
own teacher
no I I studied Buddhism and practiced
Buddhism for a number of years but I
it's funny I don't consider myself a
Buddhist I consider myself influenced by
Buddhism I I see a lot of the Buddhist
insights as like tools right so to me
non-attachment is
it's a tool or it is a uh
it's kind of like a mindset or an
approach of just reminding yourself of
like
yes social validation it can make you
happy or unhappy but like don't ever
forget that
it's not really real like these are just
these are just uh
chemicals firing in your brain and as
you said like subroutines of of our our
Consciousness and
um
you know whether the the friends I had
dinner with last night didn't laugh at
my jokes like what
whether that matters or not you know
it's all in my head
um so I think that's a useful
perspective to be able to access at
certain moments to kind of keep yourself
stable insane
I I think Buddhism takes it to an
extreme where it's like nothing matters
like there's nothing exists it's all
imagined
um and that may be true but I don't find
that very practical when you're like
trying to live in LA and have a career
and have a family it's interesting so as
you consider yourself influenced by
Buddhism I consider myself influenced by
taoism and for for quite some time
Ashley called myself a Taoist uh that
led me to exploring Buddhism looking at
it I'm far more familiar with taoism
than I am Buddhism but the I really
looked at the idea of non-attachment
completely letting go and the irony is I
think that they are right that all of
suffering really does stem from I want
this thing and that thing can be I
wanted this outcome from this moment I
wanted the the Christmas to go better I
wanted the joke to be funnier whatever
but it's it's an attachment to a thing a
desired outcome whatever and when I look
at my own suffering it is always tied to
that yeah but
I when I project my life out where I
live a monastic life just like wow I
really I would give up some suffering I
wouldn't suffer as much that is for sure
but also the depth of the joy the honor
of being able to put myself in the arena
and see what I can accomplish yeah and
the bad news is that you know for all
I've accomplished I set my sights higher
and higher which you have warned people
not to do yeah uh but I enjoy that Quest
because I have a very healthy
understanding that the most likely
outcome is failure yeah and so I'm like
okay I'm I'm continually ratcheting this
up at some point you try to climb a
mountain so high you die it's just like
this hey Mount Everest is literally
littered with the bodies of people that
have tried
um so I'm aware of that but even in the
face of that I find myself wanting to
embrace the challenge of mountain
climbing over
that and it would still be a challenge
the challenge of a monastic life it that
feels to me like
tapping out you get an amazing reward
for it yeah but it doesn't feel like
making the most of this Human Experience
I I think it sounds I think you and I
align on this
um it's funny I have a friend who's
a meditation teacher and like pretty
intense Buddhist and I've talked to him
about this before and the the point I
always come back to is is like look 2500
years ago you weren't giving up a whole
lot by going and sitting in a cave and
staring at a wall for 10 years like
there wasn't much happening outside of
that cave either right so
um whereas these days like yeah there's
there's a huge there's a bounty of
complexity and amazing culture and
society and everything
um
I think to me the way I have kind of I
guess integrated the Buddhist wisdom
into my own approach to what you just
described is
I think the wisdom that it lends is when
you're climbing that mountain
don't forget that it's just a mountain
and you chose the climate and you can
you can choose to stop climbing it at
any time to me that's what
non-attachment means you know I think
it's
and in Buddhism they're very explicit
about this that when you
when you get very good at non-attachment
or even achieve enlightenment you don't
stop suffering you just stop
being attached to that suffering or
identifying with that suffering it's
like suffering just becomes yet another
Sensation that passes like a cloud
and so nothing actually practically
changes outward in your life it's simply
the
the mental constructs I guess you could
say it's the realization that everything
is simply a mental construct that is
arising and falling and falling in your
consciousness
uh you know I love the the old's insane
where it's they say before Enlightenment
chop would carry water after
Enlightenment chop would carry water and
I
I relate to that on I guess a much less
profound or spiritual level you know
just
growing older and more successful like I
look at
my ambition in my 20s and maybe you you
relate to this but my ambition in my 20s
it was very driven by like a need to
prove something like I have to I need to
make a bunch of money I need to be
successful I need to like show that I'm
smart and that I'm doing something cool
and great and impress a bunch of people
and then you achieve a bunch of those
things and you realize that none of it
really sticks or makes you happy and
and now it's like now I just I want to
achieve things just because it's fun to
achieve things it's fun to create things
in the world it's fun to improve lives
and
like there's no need to prove something
there's no there's nothing I'm trying to
like show to myself or to anybody really
even not to yourself
um yeah it's it but it's like you said I
I really resonate with you know it's
like comfort with failure you know it's
like like I'm I'm investing I'm gonna do
try to do over the next couple years I'm
gonna do a bunch of stuff with my
YouTube channel I completely recognize
that it may end up not being worth it it
may not go nearly as well as I wanted to
or hope that that it will
and I'm comfortable with that whereas I
think 10 years ago that that would have
been mortifying that that idea you know
of like a book coming out and not doing
super well like that would have been
mortified 10 years ago or even five
years ago you know now it's kind of like
well that's just I'm gonna have a long
career and I'm not gonna hit a home run
every time so
um and then and it's actually very
similar to what we were saying about you
know
when you're insecure you see everything
as a power struggle and you want to get
from the losing side to The Winning Side
and then once you're on The Winning Side
you realize
the real way to win is to stop the power
struggle and just opt out of the game
altogether and
I think it's the same with kind of a
pursuit of success you know when you
when you've experienced no success you
you just want to get to success you
don't really care how uh but then once
you get to success you're like wow I
don't feel any different and so then you
just realize that that the construct of
success is completely made up and you've
been torturing yourself for 10 years for
no reason it's interesting success is is
such a mixed bag because I think you
will agree that the money's real that's
very powerful yes but it cannot change
how you feel about yourself no and
people think it's going to make them
feel cool yeah and it doesn't and all of
your insecurities I remember when it
literally for me was in an instant I'd
spent God knows how long building
companies but the day that the money hit
was like all in one refresh of my
banking app and I was like oh wow uh
what's the marketing quote wherever you
go there you are yeah it's like however
much money you have there you are it's
like it didn't matter and I was like oh
God thankfully I already do that so it
was not like some big surprising moment
but I thought this is how people really
spiral out of control because they're
expecting in that moment for you know
something to change and for the world
that more colors or something and it's
like oh I'm in this new class and
everything is different but money really
does buy cool [__] and you can do
amazing things it was actually really
interesting hearing you talk about Will
Smith for people that don't know you
wrote ghost wrote wrote no your name's
in the things
co-wrote his autobiography and
that the fact that you've been able to
see firsthand how
somebody of like his stature moves
through the world it's pretty
interesting yeah but you said yes but
I'm glad it's not my life yeah and that
I thought put a pretty interesting point
on it yeah I think there's an optimal
level of Fame and I'm probably
pretty close to it already maybe a
little bit past it
um I would not want to be as famous as
him
um
the the money I mean
sure I'll take Will Smith money like I
would have no complaint about Will Smith
money I don't need Will Smith money but
I that's not the problem it's I
definitely think
you know the curve of Happiness to fame
is is a bell curve and
um of declining utility
so it Peaks and then goes back down and
I think there's actually very large
costs on like far on the other side
um
that yeah I don't like you lose privacy
you there's security concerns there's
all sorts of stuff you know
um
I I think I think the optimal level of
Fame is probably probably where both of
us are at you know it's like you get
recognized on the street just enough to
like make your day but it never
interferes with your life yeah I feel
invisible yeah still which is lovely but
every now and then yeah someone will
come up and it's like oh you're like
that's lovely that feels good yeah
that's cool brother I'm So Into what
you're doing I can't wait to see what
you do on YouTube where can people
follow you uh follow me on YouTube Mark
Manson or markmanson.net I like it all
right everybody if you haven't already
be sure to subscribe and until next time
my friends be legendary take care peace
watch this video to learn my personal
process to achieve any goal and
completely change your life it's become
so bizarre in society where we are
celebrating people that are not pushing
their physical limits and I'm just
telling you right now I don't pass any
moral judgment on anybody that decides
that they don't want to do that but I
will tell you 1000